Welcome to our program. This month's theme is, are you paying attention?
Strange relationships, illnesses, careers, entertainment. We'll learn how to stay
focused on Jehovah despite these potential distractions. We'll see how our
ministry is more effective when we focus on reaching the hearts of people. And our
new saw was written especially for you young adults to help you keep your eyes
on the prize of life. This is JW Broadcasting for November 2020. Are you paying
attention? Perhaps you've been asked that question by your parents, a teacher,
or someone else in authority. It's a good question for each of us to ask our
selves. Can you think of occasions associated with our worship that require us
to pay special attention? For example, when reading the Bible, attending meetings,
elders when shepherding, you children when being instructed by your parents. We
want to pay attention and yet there are so many distractions, electronic gadgets,
the conversations and activities of those around us. Truly, it can be a
challenge to pay attention. Did you know that the phrase pay attention occurs
dozens of times in the New World Translation? In many of those occurrences,
Jehovah is instructing his people to pay attention. What does it mean to pay
attention? And how important is it that you and I pay attention to Jehovah? The
account in 1 Samuel chapter 15 will help us to answer those questions. In verse
3, Jehovah instructs King Saul to strike down the Amalakites and to devote them
and everything they have to destruction. However, verses 8 and 9 tell us that
Saul did not obey. He spared the King of Amalak and the best of the animals.
How did Saul respond when Samuel confronted him? As we read verses 13 through 15,
note how Saul tried to justify his disobedience. When Samuel finally came to
him, Saul said to him, May Jehovah bless you. I have carried out the word of Jehovah.
But Samuel said, Then what is this sound of the flock in my ears and the sound of
the cattle that I hear? To this Saul said, They were brought from the Amalakites
because the people spared the best of the flock and the herd for sacrificing them
to Jehovah, your God. But what was left? We devoted to destruction. Did you notice?
Saul attempted to justify his disobedience claiming that the animals would be
sacrificed to Jehovah. Was Jehovah pleased with Saul? As we read verse 22,
please note the connection between paying attention and obedience. Samuel then said,
Does Jehovah take as much pleasure in bird offerings and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of
Jehovah? Look, to obey is better than a sacrifice and to pay attention than the fat of
grams. What was one of the causes of Saul's disobedience? He didn't pay attention to Jehovah's
instructions. His failure to pay attention resulted in disobedience and brought Jehovah's
disapproval. What a powerful lesson for us. As happened with Saul, our worship could
become unacceptable to Jehovah if we fail to pay attention. Now that we understand why
it is important to pay attention, let's consider three aspects of paying attention that are
discussed in the Bible. The first scripture will consider is 2nd Chronicles chapter 19,
verse 6. And he, that is, Jehoshaphat, said to the judges, pay attention to what you are
doing for you to not judge for man, but for Jehovah. And he is with you when you pass judgment.
This admonition to pay attention was given by King Jehoshaphat to appoint a judges throughout
the land of Judah. What a sobering reminder. Those judges had good reason to pay attention to what
they were doing. Why? They were responsible to Jehovah. They represented him and their decisions
affected the lives of fellow worshipers. Thus, they needed to be familiar with Jehovah's thinking
on matters and to hold to his unprejudiced viewpoint when handling matters. This is an excellent
reminder for those who serve as elders. Good elders are good students of the Bible and Bible-based
publications. Why? Their attentiveness to Jehovah enables them to pay attention to what they
are doing. If they are going to represent Jehovah and reflect his thinking accurately as they
handle matters, whether they are shepherding the congregation, delivering a part at a meeting,
caring for a challenging assignment, or addressing wrongdoing, they must pay attention to what
they are doing. That is why they must be familiar with Jehovah's thinking and then take care to
follow his direction. If they do, they show that they are paying attention to what they are doing.
Jehovah's interest in assisting the elders is demonstrated in the ongoing education he provides.
Each time the circuit overseer visits the congregation, he presents material prepared
especially for the elders, the Kingdom Ministry school, and the school for congregation elders
provide more intensive instruction. How important that elders pay close attention to
and apply such instruction. They are doing so protect not just themselves, but also fellow worshipers.
By paying attention, elders will be able to convey direction to the congregations
accurately. This can be especially important if our worship is banned or restricted in the event
of a natural disaster or other catastrophic event. This brings us to the second aspect of paying attention
that we'll consider. Let's read Luke chapter 8 verse 18.
Therefore, pay attention to how you listen for whoever has will be given more,
but whoever does not have, even what he imagines he has will be taken away from him.
What did Jesus mean when he said, pay attention to how you listen?
Those in Jesus' audience in the first century had the wonderful privilege of hearing Jesus'
literal voice as he instructed them. Of course, we can't hear the voice of Jesus today,
but we can read his words and learn of his actions as revealed in the gospel accounts.
In fact, we have many opportunities to listen, to Jehovah, Jesus, the faithful and discrete slave,
the elders in our congregation, our marriagemate, our children.
No wonder the Bible writer James stated that everyone must be quick to listen.
Think about it. If Saul had truly listened receptively to Jehovah's direction regarding the Amalakites,
he would likely have grasped the importance of the direction he received and would have been
motivated to obey. However, his lack of attentiveness led to disobedience and Jehovah's disapproval.
If we don't pay attention to how we listen, we could find ourselves becoming critical,
or unappreciative, or even disobedient. So as Jehovah instructs and directs us,
we need to think about what we are being told, ponder over its meaning,
mallet over in our mind, and most important, apply the instruction in our own lives.
If you're a young person, how can you show that you're paying attention to how you listen?
Consider the admonition in Ephesians chapter 6, verses 1 through 3.
Children, be obedient to your parents and union with the Lord, for this is righteous.
On her, your father and your mother, is the first command with the promise
that it may go well with you, and you may remain a long time on the earth. You children,
who do you think is the source of this direction?
We know that these words come from Jehovah. Did you notice that the verses state not only that
children should be obedient to their parents, but also that they should honor their parents?
How can you show that you're paying attention to how you listen to this direction?
When I was a boy, I can remember occasions when my parents would ask me to do something,
perhaps to take out the trash. I would always obey, but at times I'd make it very clear
that I didn't really want to do what was asked. I think you young ones know what I mean.
However, if we're truly paying attention to how we listen to Jehovah's words,
we'll be careful to honor our parents, which is an essential element of obedience.
In this way, we contribute to the peace of the family, and we make Jehovah's heart glad.
Additionally, as the promise in verse 3 indicates, paying attention to how you listen
will protect you and contribute to your success in other ways throughout your adult life.
Of course, all of us should remember that our everlasting welfare will depend on our willingness
to listen and obey. How important, then, that all of us pay attention to how we listen.
The third aspect of paying attention is found at Luke chapter 21, verses 34 and 35,
but pay attention to your selves, that your hearts never become weighed down with overeating and heavy
drinking, and anxieties of life, and suddenly that day be instantly upon you as a snare.
When Jesus had managed his followers to pay attention to themselves,
he didn't have in mind the selfish thinking that characterized King Saul,
and that so common even encouraged in today's world.
Rather, Jesus' words reveal that the key to paying attention to ourselves is knowing ourselves,
knowing what's in our figurative heart. This is a challenge for all of us.
Why? The Bible explains in Jeremiah chapter 17, verse 9,
when the heart is more treacherous than anything else and is desperate.
Who can know it? Verse 10 answers,
I Jehovah am searching the heart, examining the innermost thoughts.
So Jehovah knows what is in our heart, and he can help us to know.
He can help us to examine our motives and goal holds, and to discern why we do certain things.
Carefully and honestly, looking at ourselves in the mirror of God's word,
can reveal areas in our thinking, words, and actions that need attention.
For example, some of Jehovah's people, including those of retirement age,
who enjoyed very comfortable circumstances, have concluded that they needed to make adjustments
in their lifestyle, simplifying their lives so that they can serve Jehovah more fully.
Some who have done so have had the privilege of attending the school for Kingdom of Angelizers.
Although it meant stepping out of their comfort zone, perhaps moving to a new congregation,
they've experienced Jehovah's blessing in ways they couldn't have anticipated,
as they share the benefits of their experience and theocratic education in their new assignments.
How grateful we are that Jehovah is providing ongoing life-saving instruction by means of his word and organization.
May each of us be determined to pay attention to what we are doing.
To how we listen and to ourselves. By doing so, we'll avoid falling into the trap of disobedience
as King Saul did. Instead, as attentive and obedient servants, we'll enjoy Jehovah's friendship
forever. Elders play an important role in helping us stay focused on Jehovah,
particularly when we're facing difficult problems.
And our first video, notice how elders provide loving assistance.
Everything was going fine in my marriage, also I thought.
My ex-husband was disfellowshipped, left home, and in less than a month we divorced.
Right after the divorce, I had to figure out how I would provide for the girls.
And so I began working as a cleaner. I also had to provide for them spiritually,
but many times, because of discouragement and tiredness, I couldn't be there for them
as much as they needed me to be. Besides all of this, I also had to deal with very negative feelings.
It was a very difficult time in my life.
I had never been so sick. I couldn't even get up to go to the hospital.
To cope with this problem, I just kept praying. I was not able to walk and I was not able to
get to the meetings. The elders realized that I was missing from the meetings.
The elders quickly came to my aid. I remember that one of the things that touched me the most
was when the elders read the scripture. Some under and thirty-nine were three.
You observe me when I travel and when I lie down. You are familiar with all my ways.
I realized that I am precious to Jehovah. It was as if Jehovah was healing me.
I now knew that Jehovah was interested in me and that he was looking after me.
He was making sure that I knew it. Something else that I remember fondly
was after a meeting at the Kinamo. One of the elders gave me some scriptures to read at home
and said that if we needed any help, the elders were there for us.
Two elders lovingly came to see me because Jehovah uses them as shepherds.
I lived very far from the Kingdom home but the brothers made the sacrifice to get public transport,
get off at the main road and from there they walked 40 minutes to reach my house.
I don't know what I would have done. When the elders arrived, they listened to me.
They cried with me and they read the Bible. Jehovah loves me.
When I started to feel better, I went back to the Greek. I was really happy to be back with my brothers.
Now, after all the help we have received, we are doing well. The congregation is our second home
and we feel very good there. Everything I have today, I owe to the brothers and sisters,
especially the elders. I see shepherding calls as a very evident way in which Jehovah
demonstrates his full love for us. I understand at times that these visits might be a challenge for
the elders but the results are really good. Without a doubt, they can see that all the work and
all the effort is worthwhile. I will never forget the help I received from the elders.
This situation taught me that Jehovah will not let his sheep get lost, not even one.
During my 23 verse 4 says, and I will raise up over them shepherds who will really shepherd them.
They will no longer be afraid or be terrified and none will be missing. Declare is Jehovah.
How did the elders help Mariana and Alias? As good shepherds, they were attentive to Jehovah's flock,
so they were quick to notice that help was needed. They visited Mariana and Alias in their
homes, shared encouraging scriptures, and listened. They showed that Jehovah cares for every one of his sheep.
Those brothers, like the elders in your congregation, paid attention to the loving training and
instruction they'd received from Jehovah. To expand their ministry, many witnesses have learned
another language. Have you? If so, Jehovah knows your selfless effort and hard work to preach and
teach in that language. But as preaching to people in their native language, sufficient to reach
their heart. Let's see in this dramatization. Our family had been learning Chinese for over a year.
It wasn't easy. God has many titles. Did you know he has only one name?
I was ready, or at least I thought so. Yeah, I'll be right there. We were making progress.
And we weren't giving up. It seemed like most people just weren't interested. We were not having a
good morning. What happened? Mom and Liz weren't having a good morning either.
Brother and sister Lynn joined us. They've been a big help to us.
We told them about our morning. We were finally able to converse a little and give presentations,
but everything seemed to fall flat. You ask good questions at a door, but not always the right one.
See, when you learn the language, do not forget to learn about people.
He was right. Our questions started conversations in our old territory, but not here.
The pulsation is very good. Thanks, Berlin. We needed a different approach, where we didn't just
learn the language, but also how to reach the heart of someone who speaks it. In the July 2019
watch tower, we read about reaching the hearts of non-religious people.
Well, Paul was a Jew, but when he was talking to other people, he had to adapt his presentation.
I like what First Corinthians 9, 20 through 23 says. To the Jews, I became a Jew in order to gain
Jews to those in your law. Liz was right. When Paul spoke to fellow Jews and Athens,
he reasoned from the scriptures. But when he spoke to the Greeks at the Ariapagus,
he adapted, reasoning with them first without the Bible. He later wrote,
I have become all things to people of all sorts, so that I might by all possible means save some.
That's what we needed to do. We learned more about the people.
We started to listen more and talk about things that interested them.
We found different ways to start conversations, and we kept learning more about the culture.
Part of a Chinese proverb I found says, he who comes near ink is stained black.
It's been a great way to introduce Proverbs 13-20. The one walking with the wise will become wise.
It all comes down to showing love. The more we pay attention to how we were teaching,
the more we were able to show people the God who loves them.
What a beautiful reminder that in the ministry, we want to pay attention to people,
to what interests them, to what helps them. And as we saw, we may need to analyze and adapt
our teaching methods, just as Paul did. Even as we endeavour to reach the hearts of people in the
ministry, we must safeguard our own heart. A recent watchtower article offered practical suggestions
to help us do that. In our next video, notice how our brothers benefited from applying what they
learned. Very good friends of ours decided they wanted to go their own way and leave Jehovah,
and in that interim they became bad association for us. We had many good times together. We drove
to isolated territory together. We even visited a brother who was sick in hospital to encourage him.
I feel heartbroken that they're no longer serving Jehovah.
It's really hard to live a friend's virtually, very hard.
I was about to enter full-time service, but I still knew the adherence.
I was raised by my mother as a witness, even though I had very little contact with my father.
He still tried to oppose my spiritual progress. I kept fighting for the truth, and I got baptized
when I was 11. I guess I felt like I was doing okay, and after high school, I went to university.
I had to make some changes in my choice of entertainment. We really never stop learning.
I do enjoy relaxing and watching television, but I must admit that it is more and more difficult
to find something decent to watch these days. Well, I'm not saying that I watch bad programs.
I would never do that. But still, I wonder if what I watch is spiritually healthy for me.
The way of thinking I was exposed to in university was pressuring me to find security in my life
through material things. My government own place to live, economic stability, but at what cost?
I remember that paragraph. It said that Satan promotes making money as the only way you could
find security in this world. But one could sacrifice so much to achieve it. You could even use
your friendship with Jehovah. That article, it was just what we needed. It described a watchman
that would protect the city by sounding out an alarm on impending danger. And at sounding that
alarm, he would shut the gates to the city to protect the city. And I needed to do that.
We both needed to do that. And it's not even a question. Our loyalty to Jehovah comes first
before we loyal to any friends we have in this world. The watchtower said that storytelling
has more than entertainers. In Barna, the city of Cameroon, where I was born.
Mother spent the evenings with their children telling them stories.
And even though I was young, the stories my mother told me continued to influence me even today.
So I said to myself, oh no, wait a minute happy. It means that the stories that I watch on television
will also affect me sooner or later. And the devil knows that too. So I decided to completely
cut out the number of programs that I used to watch. Now I'm serving in full-time service and I love
it. Jehovah is really taking care of me. But I don't want to forget the beautiful principles
I've learned from the article. I still have to say I've got my heart. I want to give my best to
my father, Jehovah. A lot of day goes by. We don't think about these friends of ours. And it's
certainly our hope that they come back to Jehovah. That we can serve Jehovah together, shoulder to shoulder.
But we also learned to keep our little watchguard in check. He needs to make sure he does his job
and sound alarm and shut those gates. We never stop learning. Well, true, it's easier said than
but it's up to us. It's so important to safeguard your heart.
We all enjoy reading the watchtower and commenting at the Watchtower study.
The truly paying attention means putting what we learn into action.
What else goes into being a discerning student? That was the topic of a recent morning
worship program presented by Brother Joel Dalinger.
Our focus in the Watchtower study article is on how we can unleash the power of God's word
when teaching from the platform. But you know whether we're teaching in a congregation setting
on a Bible study or in the family isn't it true that all of us, brothers and sisters,
need to pay constant attention to ourselves and to our teaching. And we know why that's so important.
Because lives are at stake. And all of us, younger or older, touch the lives of other people.
So when we teach effectively, we are giving opportunity to others to detain the wisdom and the
discernment that God's word can give them. That's why we need to approach any teaching opportunity
seriously and prayerfully. You know, over 20 years ago, a kind elder gave me some constructive
counsel after a public talk. And then with a warm smile, he said this, remember, none of us
teach like Jesus did. Well, I'll never forget that counsel. Why were those observations so helpful?
Well, it reminded me that when teaching, our model needs to be Jesus, the great teacher.
There's more to learn from him. And Jesus example reminds us of the need to remain humble
and diligent students of Jehovah, the grand instructor.
Though all of us are teachers on occasion, isn't it true that most often the role we play during
spiritual programs is that of students? Just for a moment, think about the many hours we spend as
students, not teachers, when we're in the audience at congregation meetings, at assemblies and
conventions. Add to that the time we are students when we buy out time to watch the monthly broadcast,
to prepare for meetings, to engage in family and personal study. And then think of the added
privilege that many of us here have to enjoy morning worship five days a week. You know, a typical
program of morning worship lasts between 20 to 25 minutes. If you multiply that by five days a
week and then by 52 weeks, at a minimum, we are exposed to at least 86 hours of divine instruction
each year. But if we're not careful, some or much of that valuable instruction, encouragement
and counsel could just wash over us. So for the remaining time for our program this morning,
let's consider some things all of us can do to listen more effectively at spiritual programs.
Please, for our first point, open your Bible to Ezra, chapter 7 and verse 10. And let's consider
Ezra's example. Let's Ezra, chapter 7 and verse 10. And notice the reading carefully.
Ezra had prepared his heart to consult the law of Jehovah and to practice it and to teach its
regulations and judgments in Israel. Now, if you have the Bible with the asterisk next to prepared his
heart, if you tap on that, you'll notice that that could be rendered as had determined in his heart.
Well, what do we learn from Ezra? He had the right attitude going in to a period of study.
He had the right approach to study and learning. He recognized that it was Jehovah who would be
teaching him through his law. And as the verse goes on to say, he first recognized that he needed
to personally practice what he was learning. Only then would he be in a rightful position to
effectively teach others. Well, this scripture emphasizes the point we've already made,
doesn't it? Though we are teachers on occasion, we are always first and foremost students of God's
Word. How can we imitate Ezra's example and prepare our hearts before study, before attending
a spiritual program, whether here at Bethel or in the congregation, before watching a monthly
broadcast? Well, we need to prepare our hearts by specifically praying to Jehovah, recognizing him
as the source of the teaching. What should we pray specifically about? Well, for one,
we want to pray that we remain humble while listening to theocratic instruction.
We need to listen no matter how long we've been in Jehovah's classroom because none of us knows
it all, nor will we ever know it all. Proverbs chapter 1 and verse 5 reminds us that a wise person
listens and takes in more instruction. Well, this leads to another question. What if we find we have a
somewhat negative attitude toward a certain presentation, perhaps the material doesn't interest us,
or we have a negative attitude toward a certain brother and his teaching ability? What should we do?
Prepare our heart. Pray to Jehovah to recognize and appreciate that the instruction is from him.
Pray to have a thankful spirit. You know, back in 2002, the watchtower made this helpful point
in an article that was entitled, pay more than the usual attention. I quote,
some may tend to gauge the quality of a meeting by the teaching abilities of the participants.
Though the teaching ability of participants is important, it is not the sole factor contributing to a
meeting's success. Do you not agree that our prime concern should be not how well the speaker
delivers his talk, but how well we incline our ear? When we attend meetings, the article continues,
and pay attention to what is being presented, we are worshiping God in harmony with his will.
That is what makes the meeting a success. If we are eager to take in the knowledge of God,
we will benefit from meetings regardless of a speaker's abilities. What a beautiful reminder
for all of us. So our first point, like Ezra, let's prepare our hearts with prayer as students who
are determined to always accept and apply what Jehovah has to teach us. Let's consider a second
point. The need to focus our attention. Have you faced the challenge of staying focused during
spiritual programs? Our minds may be distracted with anxieties and many other things.
Noise and movements around us could distract us. If we're watching morning worship at a location
other than the Bethel dining room, likely we now well know the numerous distractions that fight for
our attention. Some of us have ailments and physical discomforts that may make it difficult to
concentrate. Recently, a sister in our congregation told us about her long-term battle with migraine
headaches. I tried to put myself in her shoes having a migraine headache while attending a spiritual
program. Difficult to concentrate. Well, whatever the case may be, we know we admit that there are
many challenges and distractions. What can we do about it? Well, since the eyes strongly
influence where we focus our attention, the benefit book provides this suggestion. Use your eyes to
help you concentrate by keeping them on the speaker. When he cites a Bible text, even a familiar one
look it up and follow along as he reads it. And then it said this, resist the temptation to turn your
head in the direction of every noise or movement. If the eyes are flooding your mind with distracting
information, you will miss much of what is presented from the platform. And think about two now the
use of electronic devices. Have you ever been alerted, messaged or emailed while looking at the
Bible on your device? How wise it is when we turn those devices into a mode that eliminates
unnecessary distractions. Well, what about anxieties or disquieting thoughts? What can we do about that?
Well, here again is where we're remembering who the grand instructor is and how close he can be to us
when we're in a teaching environment. Open, please your Bible to Psalm 94, 19. To recall what the
Psalmist said to Jehovah, Psalm 94 and verse 19, we read, When anxieties overwhelm me, you,
Jehovah, comforted and soothed me. What a beautiful reminder. Jehovah can sooth and comfort us
when attending spiritual programs so that we can focus on what he's teaching us. Yes, spiritual
programs are a provision from him, a spiritual lifeline. So as needed, during a spiritual program,
we should pray to Jehovah to help us stay focused. Pray repeatedly as needed.
Well, in summary, what have we learned? All of us are teachers from time to time. But first and
foremost, we are students in the classroom of the great teacher and the grand instructor. Like Ezra,
humility and appreciation should move us to prepare our hearts before every spiritual program.
We don't want to miss anything that Jehovah has for us. We're determined to consult that law so
that we can practice it and then teach it. And if you have all the potential distractions,
let's make it our aim to use our eyes, our mind and our heart to focus attention on the goodness
of Jehovah's spiritual provisions. If you are a young Christian who recently graduated from
school or will soon graduate, you'll make many decisions that will affect your future.
How though can you make decisions that let you successfully run the race for life?
That's the subject of our new music video.
For theocratic construction projects is a goal for many. Recently, thousands of brothers and sisters
sacrificed their time and energy to build a beautiful new branch facility in Britain.
Would you like to see the results of their hard work and the blessings they received?
Please enjoy this report.
And gave each and every one of us both the desire and the power to act.
How has sharing on this project affected your life? It all started over seven years ago.
Can you imagine how excited you're going to be when we hear that the new branch facility at
Chelmsford has been approved by the City Council? Well, guess what? Yesterday afternoon, we received
the approval. Whilst the buildings are beautiful, at the end of the day, they are just buildings.
The really special part of this project has been the people.
Even non-witnesses saw that something special was taking place on our side.
It's a very friendly state to work on. It's just our friendly one. Yeah, it's just
walking. I find it mind blowing. In a negative, sometimes society, when you come here,
it just puts a smile on your face. A truly unexpected success was the visitor center.
How we underestimated the appreciation Jehovah's people have for theocratic activities.
Visitors from all around the globe witness the activities of Jehovah for themselves.
This is partly why I'm actually studying the Bible to get baptized because when I came here,
just hit me somewhere, you know. Me and Alicia can't see, so everyone's been so encouraging and
thoughtful. We really feel like Jehovah's Jehovah's with us and he supported us.
I really liked the ladies driving tractor. Everyone wanted to have a part in the project.
Every single contribution warmed our hearts and sometimes our heads too.
Another beautiful project highlight was the Dave volunteer program. The effort and expense
brothers and sisters sacrificed reminded all of us what that privilege it is to work for Jehovah.
And how about the commuters who helped on the project? Would the BRD family have had the same
spirit without our commuters? Don't you just love being a part of this amazing family?
We were regularly reminded that spirituality is of the utmost importance.
Did you ever say that a monthly meeting was the best one yet?
What lies outside the comfort zone is the faith zone.
Don't cry because it's over. Smile because it happened.
What is your story? The center of all of our stories is Jehovah.
He is the one who energised us. He is the one who gave us both the desire and the power to act.
He is the one we can thank for the lifelong friendships we have formed,
the training we have received and the challenges we've been able to overcome.
Remember your story. Really, it's only just beginning.
In this month's program, we learned what it means to pay attention to Jehovah.
We saw how we can stay focused on Jehovah despite potential distractions.
Elders are good shepherds because they are attentive to Jehovah's instruction.
Our ministry is more effective when we focus on reaching the hearts of people.
And our new song reminds our young adults to keep their eyes on the prize of life.
Before we say goodbye, let's go to the southwest tip of Japan and visit our brothers and sisters
in the Ishiagaki congregation. Their territory includes the Yaiyama Islands,
an archipelago of 12 islands, and more than 360 coral reefs.
Emerald green waters surround these lush, jungle-covered islands.
With almost no light pollution, this is an ideal place to observe Jehovah's beautiful,
heavenly creation. Vast distances between the islands make the ministry a challenge.
To reach remote communities, publishers take fairies and small airplanes.
This is costly, and economic conditions here are uneasy.
Transportation includes bicycles, as well as carts and wagons pulled by water buffalo.
Public witnessing is an effective way to share the good news with the many tourists to travel here.
More than one million visited during one recent year.
Contact cards also produce good results.
The Ishiagaki congregation has 112 publishers, including 35 regular pioneerers.
They're conducting more than 100 Bible studies every month.
The Kingdom Hall is in Ishiagaki City on the main island.
Talks from this Kingdom Hall are streamed to the small meeting place for the seven brothers and sisters
who live on remote Iriamote Island. The publishers work together to maintain the Kingdom Hall.
And they enjoy upbuilding association in this beautiful land.
Our brothers and sisters in the Ishiagaki congregation send their warm love and greeting.
From the World Headquarters of Jehovah's Witnesses, this is JW Broadcasting.